| Trinity College Dublin
Skip to content
menu
search Search
Students
Courses
Research
Faculties & Schools
Alumni
A-Z
Gaeilge
Search text
Search
Courses
menuMenu
Home
Undergraduate
Postgraduate
Micro-credentials
Fees
CPD
Short Courses
Contact Us
Academic Registry
Watts Building
Trinity College
Dublin 2
Ireland
View the contact page for more contact and location information
Email academic.registry@tcd.ie
Hospital Pharmacy (M.Sc.)
NFQ Level 9
2 years part-time
15 Places
Menu
Open Menu
Overview
Course Details
Fees
Admissions Requirements
Register your InterestApply
Overview
Course OverviewWinner of the GradIreland Postgraduate Course of the Year Award (2019 ) in the Health Sciences Division, the M.Sc. in Hospital Pharmacy is the longest running postgraduate hospital pharmacy course in Ireland. It is also the only broad-based hospital pharmacy course in Ireland, covering both clinical and non-clinical aspects of hospital pharmacy practice, equipping pharmacists with the knowledge and skills to take on a range of advanced practice and leadership roles.The M.Sc. in Hospital Pharmacy embraces an innovative, blended teaching style, with tutor-led, practice-based experiential learning, complemented by online webinars, pre-recorded lectures, and face-to-face lectures, tutorials and workshops. This highly interactive course provides students with the knowledge and practical skills necessary to undertake all aspects of hospital pharmacy: clinical, dispensary, aseptics services, medicines information and leadership/management.Is This Course For Me?Our MSc course arms graduates with the necessary knowledge, skills and attitudes to take on a wide range of advanced specialist pharmacist, management and leadership roles. Students to undertake training in all aspects of hospital pharmacy, including clinical pharmacy, dispensary and drug distribution, administration and management, aseptic compounding, and medicines information.Career OpportunitiesMulti-functional graduates of our M.Sc. programme have excellent career opportunities to fill specialist and leadership roles across a wide range of both clinical and non-clinical areas in hospital practice. The wide variety of topics covered in our course open up multiple opportunities for graduates to take on a variety of roles, not only within the hospital sector, but also across the wider healthcare landscape e.g. medication safety, informatics, pharmacoeconomics etc.Course StructureThis is a two-year course, delivered via a blended model (mixture of face-to-face study days, online live webinars and pre-recorded lectures), which provides flexibility for learners, who are also practising hospital pharmacists. Students have access to Trinity’s online virtual learning environment (Blackboard 9.1).The MSc course is conducted on a biennial basis.Coursework is underpinned by a comprehensive practice-based element where students rotate through a variety of specialist areas to ensure that broad, practical experience is obtained in medicines information, dispensary management, aseptic compounding and clinical specialities.Students also undergo a competency-based training programme to assure competence in delivery of patient care, problem solving and personal competencies. This also helps students to develop the necessary skills for lifelong Continuous Professional Development (CPD).Assessment of the course includes continuous assessment, practice-based coursework, written assignments, oral presentations, and completion of a research project and production of a paper for submission to a target journal, in either a clinical or non-clinical area, with both academic and hospital based tutor support.Course ContentThe M.Sc. is divided into 9 modules.Practice of Hospital Pharmacy is a broad-based module, where all course components are drawn together (core clinical skills, professional and problem-solving skills, medicines information, and dispensary functions).Medical Therapeutics I & II & Surgical Therapeutics, addresses the important role of the pharmacist in medicines optimisation, and also in the management of the surgical patient. These modules deal with the major therapeutic areas such as cardiology, respiratory, gastroenterology etc. and are underpinned by the practice-based hospital rotations.Aseptics & Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP), provides students with a fundamental understanding of aseptic processing in hospital pharmacy.Medical Specialities Part I & II, introduces students to a wide range of clinical specialities, preparing them to take on Advanced Specialist Pharmacist (ASP) roles e.g. renal, intensive care, neurology, psychiatry, and paediatrics. The importance of immunotherapy and personalised therapeutics, and GMO medicines are also covered here.Health Services Management, covers leadership, organisational and communication skills, negotiating skills, conflict management and teamwork. Quality and risk management, national trends and policies in relation to healthcare, and legal and ethical considerations will also be covered. Pharmacoeconomics and its applications are covered here in this module.Research module covers principles of research design and methodologies, and incorporates a practical statistics programme, with an emphasis on hospital pharmacy research and data analysis.
Postgraduate study at the School of Pharmaceutical Sciences at Trinity
An overview of the opportunities for postgraduate study at the School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences in Trinity College Dublin.
Course DetailsAwardsNFQ Level 9
Number of Places 15 Places
Next IntakeJanuary 2026
Course DirectorNiamh McMahon
Closing Date31st July 2025
Admission RequirementsEligible candidates must hold a first or second-class Honours (2.1) degree in Pharmacy, have min. six months experience working in hospital pharmacy practice, which may include final year MPharm placement, and be registered (or eligible to be registered) with the Pharmaceutical Society of Ireland. Applicants also require two references, one academic and one non-academic. Short-listed applicants will have to attend hospital interviews to secure training positions. Successful applicants will be based in full-time employment in one of the participating hospitals for the two-year duration of the course.English Language RequirementsAll applicants to Trinity are required to provide official evidence of proficiency in the English language. Applicants to this course are required to meet Band B (Standard Entry) English language requirements. For more details of qualifications that meet Band B, see the English Language Requirements page here.
Course FeesClick here for a full list of postgraduate fees
ApplyTo apply, click on the relevant Apply Link belowHospital Pharmacy (M.Sc.) - 2 Years - Part-Time19/OCT/2025
Get in TouchEmailMs. Niamh McMahon (Course Director): nmcmahon@tcd.ieWebsitewww.pharmacy.tcd.ie/postgraduate/msc_hospital.php
Register Your InterestRegister your interest in studying at Ireland’s leading university, Trinity College Dublin, the University of Dublin.Register Your Interest
Related Courses
Pharmaceutical Sciences (M.Sc. / P.Grad. Dip.)
Pharmaceutical Manufacturing Technology (Online - M.Sc./P.Grad.Dip)
CoursesPostgraduateCoursesHospital Pharmacy (M.Sc.)
Updated 14 October 2025
Trinity College Dublin, The University of Dublin.
College Green, Dublin 2, Ireland
T: +353 1 896 1000
Trinity Associations and Charters
Accessibility
Cookie policy
Privacy
Cookies Settings
Disclaimer
Contact
T-Net